SecHub testing on local k8s #4165 (#4187)
mercedes-benz/sechub: sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/sechub-getting-started.adoc

//--

== Introduction
This tutorial teaches you how to setup a SecHub environment and to do a scan using SecHub.

You will learn:

* How to start a SecHub environment and Gitleaks+PDS using Helm charts and container images
* Scan a vulnerable application containing a "forgotten" secret.
* Install and use SecHub's extension for VsCodium (Optional)

plantuml::diagrams/diagram_behind_the_scenes_sechub.plantuml[format=svg, title="Setup Overview"]

This Diagram roughly explains how SecHub functions, behind the scenes.

> The SecHub server is responsible for taking jobs and passing them to the PDS server(s) for processing. Once the job finishes on the PDS side, they are fetched and processed by SecHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SecHub server is responsible for taking jobs and passing them to one or more PDS for processing. Once the job finishes on the PDS side, they are fetched and processed by SecHub.
```

Author: applied

=== Start SecHub environment and create a basic setup

[source, shell]
--
cd sechub-solutions-shared/setup-with-kubernetes
./00_prepare_build.sh
./01_init.sh
./10_deploy_sechub_server.sh
./20_deploy_pds-gitleaks.sh
./40_apply-profiles.sh
--

This starts the SecHub server and a PDS with Gitleaks secret scanner.

=== Setup a project in SecHub

The following call will create a SecHub project named "demo" and assigns the profile "secretscanner-gitleaks" to it:

[source, shell]
--
./50_create_SecHub_project.sh demo secretscanner-gitleaks
--

Now you are ready to do scans!

== Scan using SecHub Client

=== Environment vaiables
After starting all servers, some environment variables have to be set. Specifically `SECHUB_SERVER`, `SECHUB_USERID`, `SECHUB_APITOKEN`, `SECHUB_TRUSTALL`. Make sure that the SecHub client executable "sechub" is in the PATH.

[source, shell]
--
SECHUB_IP_ADDRESS=$(kubectl --namespace=sechub-testing get svc/sechub-server -o=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
export SECHUB_SERVER=https://$SECHUB_IP_ADDRESS:8443
export SECHUB_USERID=admin
export SECHUB_APITOKEN=demo
export SECHUB_TRUSTALL=true
--

=== Scan

> We have prepared mini-example in the "demo" folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have prepared a mini-example in the "demo" folder.
```

Author: applied

> Please have a look at the `sechub.json` there, which tells which files to be scanned, and which to be skipped.

Author: applied
